#### John Velten Capstone Assessment

Our group project, the Malicious Honeypot, represents something that we should be able to accomplish by pulling together our various experiences and leveraging a variety of information that we have learned. Academically, the project should bring together various aspects of our learning experiences, both in the class and while on co-op, in order the achieve the various milestones set for such a long-term endeavor. Our group focused on aspects of our curriculum that we find interesting and used that as a base for the brainstorming of ideas. The goal of our project is not only to create something we have little experience with, but to add onto it in ways that would not be expected. With a group interest in cyber security, a honeypot represents just one tool that can be useful in various ways and this project allows us to explore that and more. Overall, the outcome of this project should become a combination of our experiences in the classroom learning and the hands-on experience we have gained while on co-op.

Personally, I feel that the curriculum is not quite what I was expecting when I first started my degree. I was fond of my classes at the start of my degree program that involved a lot coding, and I have started to struggle with the classes dealing more with the high-level theory behind the coding as I am just not as interested. In the context of this project, I expect to write and contribute a lot to the code base we use with the support of my team members for various other tasks. Most of my classes up to this point don’t feed well into the background of this project but I feel like a few, such as Cyber Defense Overview, offer a good foundation of information on the subject to use as a steppingstone towards learning the specifics behind the project. For example, our classes don’t specifically teach us to code and deploy a honeypot, but they cover basis behind why honeypots are used and the role they play in a larger cyber security system. There is more expectation to apply the information we gain in the lectures towards a specific goal than I had originally expected.

My co-op working for the Department of Defense is the amalgamation of years of interest in various aspects of cyber security. While I can’t mention the exact work I did, the skills I learned while on co-op have proven invaluable. Things that can be difficult in a classroom setting, like working as a team or focusing on a single project instead of multiple classes, can be experienced during co-op and really highlight the benefit for me about being able to focus on a single task without distractions. While none of my experience so far would be classified as beneficial for this project, I think the experience gained while on co-op will be key in working as a part of a team. I expect to be responsible for some parts of the project alone and still be able to collaborate and communicate as needed about progress being made and planning ahead. Most of the skills that I believe will be applicable during this project I have gained through hands-on learning during my co-ops where I was able to work on more personal projects that focused on support of the overall team goals.

One of the motivations behind this project is that I wanted to be able to create something I was interested in and adapt it to suit some non-standard need. As I mentioned before, the curriculum doesn’t specifically cover topics such as creating and maintaining honeypots or other forms of cyber security, but rather focuses on the theory behind its usefulness and the impact of the application of something has in conjunction with other tools. While there are many things that could’ve been chosen for the project, I sought the advice of our project advisor on what would be a feasible project to undertake that would still be interesting to pursue. I am excited to see the outcome of this project so that I can prove to myself that creating something new, or at least uncommon, is something that I can do and make a positive impact with it. I felt like this project would be mainly focused on the coding work of creating a honeypot and modifying said code to have it act a certain way which is why it appealed to me the most. I eventually want to see just how far I can go with what I can code and how it can be useful and make an impact.

My preliminary approach is very simple at a high level: Create a honeypot and modify its code to have it perform in a certain way. However, since I have no experience with coding honeypots directly, some research and practice need to be done first to gain a decent level of understanding of the difficulty of this project. I expect the Malicious Honeypot to appear as a normal honeypot to any attack in a system, yet when they try to extract information the modifications to the honeypots code will allow the user to gain access to the attackers’ system. The easiest way to envision this is a Venus Flytrap, that will trap prey after certain conditions have been met. Should an attacker not try and extract any information from the malicious honeypot, the attackers’ system will not be attacked back but the honeypot will still be able to function as a basic honeypot and record information about how the attacker interacts with the system. I believe that testing the results of the project will be somewhat minimal, our group can pose as attackers using our own computer systems and attempt to steal test data knowing that the malicious honeypot taking control of our system doesn’t mean that our systems will be destroyed. I think a simple demonstration of control like creating a file on the desktop would be sufficient in showing that access could be gained to an attackers system and “malicious” code could be executed.

