#### Nick Marquardt Capstone Assessment

This project is about exploring cyber security through the use of a honeypot. Honeypots are tools used by people in the cyber security field to lure attackers, observe their behavior, and take action to protect against attacks in the future. In addition to the usual function of a honeypot, we want to be a bit more malicious and return data to the attacker that will give us control over their system. From an academic perspective, this project will deal heavily with security. A background in security is becoming increasingly more sought after with how connected the world has become through computers.

We have all been through most of the same classes while in the CS program here at UC. John is currently taking a Cybersecurity class, so he may have a bit more expertise on the project than Alex and I. I am also currently enrolled in Computer Networks and Networked Computing, which will provide a good base of knowledge to go off of while working on the honeypot. Other than that, our academic backgrounds do not feed into this project that well. On the contrary, I believe my co-op experience may help out a bit.

In my first co-op, I was a developer that delved into a couple things that will help in the project. Firstly, I used python which is the language that I think would be ideal for building a honeypot. Secondly, I worked in an SSH terminal via PuTTY which will be the battlefield so to speak when running the honeypot and dealing with the attacker. Python is an interesting language in regards to syntax and formatting, so it is helpful that I have had exposure to the language in a professional setting. SSH terminals can also be pretty daunting when first dealing with them, so it is nice that we won’t be upstream without a paddle with the project.

This project is exciting to us because it is something we were vaguely familiar with, but have never investigated thoroughly. This project will also be relevant to the industry today since cybersecurity is arguably one of the most important jobs in the CS field. Another exciting aspect is that attacks are carried out in real time, so it will be somewhat of a high pressure game we are playing. It will also be interesting to learn more or less how to hack and understand how people with malicious intent carry out their attacks.

We will be conducting a lot of research on how to construct a honeypot and how to use it. Hacking is a real threat and none of us are experienced in warding off attackers, so it might be tricky to test the honeypot without compromising our own systems. In order to test the honeypot, I think we will need to act as an attacker ourself and sort of go about it like a 2-player video game. We also need to be careful in how malicious our counter attack will be, especially if we are testing with our own systems. With the help of several virtual machines, I think we can handle the development of this project safely.
